Extracted Data:
 artificial intelligence | Definition, Examples, Types, Applications, Companies, & Facts | Britannica Browse Search Dictionary Quizzes On This Day Subscribe Login Entertainment & Pop Culture Geography & Travel Health & Medicine Lifestyles & Social Issues Literature Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Science Sports & Recreation Technology Visual Arts World History Quizzes Games Podcasts On This Day Dictionary Biographies Summaries Top Questions Week In Review Infographics Demystified Lists #WTFact Companions Image Galleries Spotlight The Forum Entertainment & Pop Culture Geography & Travel Health & Medicine Lifestyles & Social Issues Literature Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Science Sports & Recreation Technology Visual Arts World History Britannica ClassicsCheck out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Demystified VideosIn Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact VideosIn #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. This Time in HistoryIn these videos, find out what happened this month (or any month!) in history. Britannica ExplainsIn these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. Buying GuideExpert buying advice. From tech to household and wellness products. Student PortalBritannica is the ultimate student resource for key school subjects like history, government, literature, and more. COVID-19 PortalWhile this global health crisis continues to evolve, it can be useful to look to past pandemics to better understand how to respond today. 100 WomenBritannica celebrates the centennial of the Nineteenth Amendment, highlighting suffragists and history-making politicians. Britannica BeyondWe’ve created a new place where questions are at the center of learning. Go ahead. Ask. We won’t mind. Saving EarthBritannica Presents Earth’s To-Do List for the 21st Century. Learn about the major environmental problems facing our planet and what can be done about them! SpaceNext50Britannica presents SpaceNext50, From the race to the Moon to space stewardship, we explore a wide range of subjects that feed our curiosity about space! artificial intelligence Table of Contents artificial intelligence Introduction & Top QuestionsWhat is intelligence?LearningReasoningProblem solvingPerceptionLanguageMethods and goals in AISymbolic vs. connectionist approachesStrong AI, applied AI, and cognitive simulationAlan Turing and the beginning of AITheoretical workChessThe Turing testEarly milestones in AIThe first AI programsEvolutionary computingLogical reasoning and problem solvingEnglish dialogueAI programming languagesMicroworld programsExpert systemsKnowledge and inferenceDENDRALMYCINThe CYC projectConnectionismCreating an artificial neural networkPerceptronsConjugating verbsOther neural networksNouvelle AINew foundationsThe situated approachIs strong AI possible? Fast Facts 2-Min Summary Top Questions What is the impact of artificial intelligence (AI) on society? Facts & Related Content Media Videos Images More Additional Reading More Articles On This Topic Contributors Article History Home Technology Computers artificial intelligence Actions Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook Twitter URL https://www.britannica.com/technology/artificial-intelligence Give Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! External Websites Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy - Artificial Intelligence Harvard University - Science in the News - The History of Artificial Intelligence Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. artificial intelligence - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) artificial intelligence (AI) - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Print print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook Twitter URL https://www.britannica.com/technology/artificial-intelligence More Give Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! External Websites Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy - Artificial Intelligence Harvard University - Science in the News - The History of Artificial Intelligence Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. artificial intelligence - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) artificial intelligence (AI) - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Alternate titles: AI By B.J. Copeland • Last Updated: Mar 18, 2022 • Edit History Table of Contents Alan Turing See all media Key People: Marvin Minsky Edward Albert Feigenbaum Allen Newell John McCarthy Alan Turing ...(Show more) Related Topics: computational aesthetics neural network artificial intelligence programming language expert system genetic algorithm ...(Show more) See all related content → Top Questions What is artificial intelligence? Artificial intelligence (AI) is the ability of a computer or a robot controlled by a computer to do tasks that are usually done by humans because they require human intelligence and discernment. Although there are no AIs that can perform the wide variety of tasks an ordinary human can do, some AIs can match humans in specific tasks. Are artificial intelligence and machine learning the same? No, artificial intelligence and machine learning are not the same, but they are closely related. Machine learning is the method to train a computer to learn from its inputs but without explicit programming for every circumstance. Machine learning helps a computer to achieve artificial intelligence. What is the impact of artificial intelligence (AI) on society? Artificial intelligence’s impact on society is widely debated. Many argue that AI improves the quality of everyday life by doing routine and even complicated tasks better than humans can, making life simpler, safer, and more efficient. Others argue that AI poses dangerous privacy risks, exacerbates racism by standardizing people, and costs workers their jobs, leading to greater unemployment. For more on the debate over artificial intelligence, visit ProCon.org. artificial intelligence (AI), the ability of a digital computer or computer-controlled robot to perform tasks commonly associated with intelligent beings. The term is frequently applied to the project of developing systems endowed with the intellectual processes characteristic of humans, such as the ability to reason, discover meaning, generalize, or learn from past experience. Since the development of the digital computer in the 1940s, it has been demonstrated that computers can be programmed to carry out very complex tasks—as, for example, discovering proofs for mathematical theorems or playing chess—with great proficiency. Still, despite continuing advances in computer processing speed and memory capacity, there are as yet no programs that can match human flexibility over wider domains or in tasks requiring much everyday knowledge. On the other hand, some programs have attained the performance levels of human experts and professionals in performing certain specific tasks, so that artificial intelligence in this limited sense is found in applications as diverse as medical diagnosis, computer search engines, and voice or handwriting recognition. What is intelligence? All but the simplest human behaviour is ascribed to intelligence, while even the most complicated insect behaviour is never taken as an indication of intelligence. What is the difference? Consider the behaviour of the digger wasp, Sphex ichneumoneus. When the female wasp returns to her burrow with food, she first deposits it on the threshold, checks for intruders inside her burrow, and only then, if the coast is clear, carries her food inside. The real nature of the wasp’s instinctual behaviour is revealed if the food is moved a few inches away from the entrance to her burrow while she is inside: on emerging, she will repeat the whole procedure as often as the food is displaced. Intelligence—conspicuously absent in the case of Sphex—must include the ability to adapt to new circumstances. Psychologists generally do not characterize human intelligence by just one trait but by the combination of many diverse abilities. Research in AI has focused chiefly on the following components of intelligence: learning, reasoning, problem solving, perception, and using language. Learning There are a number of different forms of learning as applied to artificial intelligence. The simplest is learning by trial and error. For example, a simple computer program for solving mate-in-one chess problems might try moves at random until mate is found. The program might then store the solution with the position so that the next time the computer encountered the same position it would recall the solution. This simple memorizing of individual items and procedures—known as rote learning—is relatively easy to implement on a computer. More challenging is the problem of implementing what is called generalization. Generalization involves applying past experience to analogous new situations. For example, a program that learns the past tense of regular English verbs by rote will not be able to produce the past tense of a word such as jump unless it previously had been presented with jumped, whereas a program that is able to generalize can learn the “add ed” rule and so form the past tense of jump based on experience with similar verbs. Load Next Page 